Brian's Sweet Pizza Sauce

Inspired By: https://www.kingarthurbaking.com/recipes/buttermilk-pancakes-recipe

Note: See tips if you dont have Buttermilk!

Yield: This is a half batch, and yeilds approximatly four 8 inch pancakes

Wet Ingredients:

1 cup (454g) Buttermilk
1/2 large egg
1 tablespoon (12g) vegetable oil
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract

Dry Ingredients:

1 cups (120g) King Arthur Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
3 tablespoons malted milk powder
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt

Optional:

Choclate chips or other mix-ins if desired

Process:

Heat cast iron Comal, Pan, or Griddle to between 350-375F.  See notes.
If you dont have Sourmilk, make it 10 minutes before you begin
Add all remaining ingredients, let stand for 5-10 minutes.
Use a 1/2 cup ladle to drop up to, or just shy of 1/2 cup of batter onto the Comal. Start a stopwatch.
At 1:30, flip the pancake.  at 3:00, it should be done.   See Notes.

Tips:

To make substitute buttermilk, combine one tablespoon of Vinegar or Lemon juice with one per cup of milk and let stand for 10 minutes.

Comal notes:  Keep the spatula and comal clean and lightly oiled between pancakes, and make sure the temp is where you want it at all times before adding a pancake.  A clean pan and spatula will help keeping things from sticking.  Before each pancake, I lightly wipe the oil in and off with a paper towel. The pan should be shiny, but there should not be visible droplets of oil present.  If the pancakes stick, your pan is probally not hot enough, or you simply tried to turn them too soon.  Use a large metal spatula.

If you aren't used to working with a cast iron comal, you will find your temp dial is much lower than you expect.  My temp is set at 1.6, on a scale of 1-7.  This will heat the pan up slowly, and keep the temp wher I want it while I cook the pancakes.  If I am not cooking, an empty comal will eventually overheat even at this low setting, so keep an eye on it.  If it starts smoking, its too hot.

When to flip, when to pull?   If your temps are well controlled, you can reliably cook by stopwatch.  However, its worth leaning to watch the pancakes to see how they look when they are ready.  You will know they are ready to flip when they look like they are no longer liquid.  Bubbles will probally form and pop, and they might steam a little.  If you look very closley at the bottom edge, you will see places where they are looking a little crispy.  After the flip,  watch the bottom edge for browning.  Dont lift it up... once you do it will never brown more, just look carefully and find a place where you can see a tiny bit of the pancake where the batter is touching the pan.  Thats the spot you can watch like a hawk. When you see its getting good and brown, the pancake is probally finihsed.   Trust temp and time at first, but as you make more pancakes watch thse things too so you know what to look for when you forget to set your stopwatch.
